# RISK PREDICTION FOR COMPLICATIONS DURING PREGNANCY

Comorbid conditions can result in significant challenges during pregnancy, causing harm to both the mother and the baby. The financial burden of a complicated pregnancy cannot be ignored. Ensuring the health of the mothers and their babies contributes to making a pregnancy a positive experience. Recent advancements in artificial intelligence and machine learning have enabled the development of predictive models that accurately identify pregnant mothers at a high risk of complications. These models consider factors, such as maternal age, medical history, and ultrasound measurements, to generate a risk score for each patient. Early detection of potential complications like gestational diabetes, pre-eclampsia, pre-term, c-section, and ideal weight. Using machine learning models based on historical, clinical data helps to minimize difficulties. The literature on pregnancies normally addresses two out of the five conditions. This study attempts to predict the five conditions during the first trimester to mitigate risks during pregnancy by modifying the diet, medication intake, and other factors. Algorithms such as logistic regression, linear regression, lasso regression, support vector machine (SVM), k-nearest neighbor (k-NN), naive Bayes, and decision trees are employed. K-nearest neighbors, logistic regression, and support vector machine exhibit superior performance. The analysis of the findings aids in understanding the risk a pregnant mother may experience during the initial stages of the pregnancy. Furthermore, the information on previous pregnancies informs the present pregnancy’s risks. The findings guide the treatment and procedures to carry the pregnancy to full term.  

Install: 

This project requires Python to run the code file. Which requires sklearn, pandas and few other libraries to execute the code and solve the problem.

Code:
The used dataset is in the folder,There are 3 datasets used in this project SampleNLP has the clinical and doctor advice notes, basic_updated file is the original dataset and the data_preview is the synthetic datase, There is 2 ipynb file risk prediction during pregnancy-2 which has all the cleaning and EDA process that was conducted and the prediction of risk to overall risks, and that are specific to each risk that was given both the original and synthetic dataset can be used for is file. The second file has all the wordcloud and frequency density plot use SampleNLP dataset in the folder.

Run:
Use this read me file to understand and use the code files to make the prediction.
